# Unsupervised-Gaze-Event-Discrimination
This repository contains the supplementary code for the research paper ['link']. In this project, we researched the possibilities of the use of unsupervised machine learning for the classification of gaze events in mobile eye-trackers. The method we proposed did not show sufficient performance, but we believe that the code provided in this repository is a versatile toolbox, which could be used for further research.

## Usage
### example
In the document, you can find a file called 'Main.IPYNB'. This file contains an example of how the toolbox could be used. In this file, we explore the preprocessing, and clustering functions.

### preprocessing.py
The preprocessing module contains functions to open and preproces the data. The following functions could be found:
* **raw_file_labeler_opener** used to open the raw data files from the Gaze-In-Wild[1] dataset and returns them in a way useable for further research.
* **file_opener** used to open files generated by the ACE-DNV[2] method.
* **normalize** custom made normalization function, which normalizes over each column individually, instead of normalizing over the entire dataset, like other normalization functions do.
* **random_undersampler** dunction for randomly undersampling the data
* **DC_data_balancer** undersampling mbalancer using divide and conquer technique, for increased speed.[2]
* **get_frames** Function that randomly undersamples an x number of datapoints for each gaze event from each task. this method ensures the highest variance of tasks, while undersampling.
* **majority_vote** Function that assigns a label to a datapoint, when the majority of labelers voted for this label. with various options to increase cofidence, decrease the number of discarded datapoints and behaviour when number of votes are equal.
* **agreement** Function that extracts all datapoints, where all labelers agree upon a label.

